## Lesson 10

The letter for **ar**ia is <mark>ğ‘¸</mark>. This is another simple compound letter.

```
  ğ‘­  +  ğ‘®  =  ğ‘¸
alms + roe = aria
```

The letter for **eer**ie is <mark>ğ‘½</mark>. This letter is just like "ian" but with *another* letter added in. Check out this three for one deal:

```
ğ‘¦  +  ğ‘©  +  ğ‘®  =  ğ‘½
in + ago + roe = eerie
```

The letter for **oi**l is <mark>ğ‘¶</mark>. It really is a reversed version of ounce. 

Say "*ou*nce" and your mouth is ready to pounce `ğ‘¬`. 

Say "*oi*l" and the sound starts at the front and goes backwards, perhaps as if you've bitten down `ğ‘¶`.

The letter for **j**oy is <mark>ğ‘¡</mark>. Similar to how "cha" is just "tan" and "shy" mixed together, think of "joy" as "done" and "zho". Say the sounds together "d" and "zh" faster and faster.

```
  ğ‘›  +  ğ‘   =  ğ‘¡
done + zho = joy
```

Now you've learned [the whole alphabet](table.html)! In just 10 lessons!

Now that you have learned all of the letters, it is time to reinforce them! Choose one or all of the options below to get a solid foundation in Shavian:

1. Use the [reading practice tool](https://shavian.school/read) on this website to continue learning to sound out words
   - Highlight words or phrases to see them translated to Latin English
3. Communicate *in* Shavian on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/Abk2Yyh) or [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#shavian:matrix.org)
   - Writing is tough, but you will feel a greater sense of accomplishment by putting your own thoughts into Shavian
5. [Memorize the most common words](https://app.memrise.com/course/6137628/most-common-shavian-english-words/)
   - Shavian is partially designed to make words visually recognizable very quickly. Flashcards are the perfect way to realize this benefit of Shavian
