## Lesson 7

The letter for **g**ill is <mark>ğ‘œ</mark>. It's a deep version of "key". Can you guess why? Put your hand on your vocal chords and say a "k" sound, then say a "guh" sound. Your vocal chords vibrate when you say "gill", so it is a voiced sound and lower.

<details>
    <summary>ğ‘œğ‘¦ğ‘¤</summary>
    <p>gill</p>
</details>
<details>
    <summary>ğ‘œğ‘ªğ‘¯</summary>
    <p>gone</p>
</details>
<details>
    <summary>ğ‘ğ‘¨ğ‘‘ ğ‘œğ‘ªğ‘¤ğ‘“ğ‘¼ ğ‘¦ğ‘Ÿ ğ‘© ğ‘œğ‘ªğ‘¯ğ‘¼.</summary>
    <p>That golfer is a goner.</p>
</details>

The letter for so**ng** is <mark>ğ‘™</mark>.

Notice that "song" is a sort of pair with "who" ğ‘£. But wait a second... your vocal chords vibrate when you say "so**ng**". So why is "song" tall instead of deep? No, because these two letters are not true "pairs" in the sense that others like ğ‘‘ğ‘› ğ‘ğ‘š are. 

In this case, just remember that when you say "so**ng**", the back of your tongue goes *up*! When you say "who", the back of your tongue goes *down*!

<details>
    <summary>ğ‘ ğ‘•ğ‘¦ğ‘™ğ‘¼ ğ‘£ğ‘¨ğ‘› ğ‘© ğ‘•ğ‘ªğ‘™.</summary>
    <p>The singer had a song.</p>
</details>

The letter for **ear**ly is <mark>ğ‘»</mark>. This is another "ligature" letter like "array" (`ğ‘¼`). You can see that the "roe" `ğ‘®` is built into the letter. 

The first part of this ligature is a letter that is like a longer "ago" `ğ‘©`. The end of "ago" connects with the beginning of "early".

```
ğ‘©ğ‘»
```

Imagine that you say "uh" and at the top of the sound you come back down into a longer "uhh" sound like "early".  

The reason that the first part of this ligature does not have it's own dedicated letter is because it doesn't occur hardly at all on its own. It's a sound that is always connected with "roe" `ğ‘®`.

<details>
    <summary>ğ‘©ğ‘“ğ‘»ğ‘¥</summary>
    <p>affirm</p>
</details>
<details>
    <summary>ğ‘ ğ‘šğ‘»ğ‘› ğ‘¦ğ‘Ÿ ğ‘ ğ‘¢ğ‘»ğ‘›.</summary>
    <p>The bird is the word.</p>
</details>

The word "to" would normally be written as `ğ‘‘ğ‘µ`, but is abbreviated in Shavian to just the letter "tan" (`ğ‘‘`).

<details>
    <summary>ğ‘»ğ‘¤ğ‘¦ ğ‘‘ ğ‘šğ‘§ğ‘›, ğ‘»ğ‘¤ğ‘¦ ğ‘‘ ğ‘®ğ‘²ğ‘Ÿ.</summary>
    <p>Early to bed, early to rise.</p>
</details>

The letter for **ough**t is <mark>ğ‘·</mark>.

<details>
    <summary>ğ‘šğ‘·ğ‘‘</summary>
    <p>bought</p>
</details>
<details>
    <summary>ğ‘·ğ‘¤ğ‘•ğ‘´</summary>
    <p>also</p>
</details>
<details>
    <summary>ğ‘·ğ‘¤ğ‘‘ğ‘¼ ğ‘°ğ‘œğ‘´</summary>
    <p>alter ego</p>
</details>
